Documentation restructure (#251)
signalfx/signalfx-dotnet-tracing: docs/README.md

The SignalFx Tracing Library for .NET provides an
OpenTracing-compatible tracer and automatically configured instrumentations
for popular .NET libraries and frameworks.

Where applicable, context propagation uses
[B3 headers](https://github.com/openzipkin/b3-propagation).

---

> ## Requirements

Reviewer: I think we haven't mentioned that a Splunk OTel Collector instance must be up and running in the host.

Author: You are correct. Let me add it in next PR

> ## Supported .NET versions

Reviewer: Any requirement in terms of Windows versions or Linux distros?

Author: I will try to investigate if we have any official list of if we try to support whatever is possible.

- .NET (Core) 3.1 and higher on Windows and Linux

> - .NET Framework 4.6.2 and higher on Windows

Reviewer: This includes mono?

Author: No. Maybe it would work but who knows 😄

Author: I have done quick research (but just reading - not testing) and it seems that it would not work on Mono.

Where applicable, context propagation uses
[B3 headers](https://github.com/openzipkin/b3-propagation).

---

## Requirements

## Supported .NET versions

> - .NET (Core) 3.1 and higher on Windows and Linux

Author: I was thinking about it but MS started to link .NET Core 3.1 in .NET pages. example:

how about this:

```suggestion
- [.NET (Core) 3.1 and higher](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/en-us/download/dotnet) on Windows and Linux
```

and adding https://dotnet.microsoft.com/en-us/download/dotnet-framework for .NET Fx?

> - .NET (Core) 3.1 and higher on Windows and Linux

Author: @theletterf WDYT?

> - .NET (Core) 3.1 and higher on Windows and Linux

Reviewer: Ok for me! I wouldn't add links though.

> - .NET (Core) 3.1 and higher on Windows and Linux

Author: Addressed https://github.com/signalfx/signalfx-dotnet-tracing/pull/251/commits/e7bb46857796f6cb3b430d94852441e272119e50

| StackExchange.Redis | `StackExchange.Redis` NuGet 1.0+ | Disable `db.statement` tagging with `SIGNALFX_INSTRUMENTATION_REDIS_TAG_COMMANDS=false` (`true` by default). |
| WebClient | Supported .NET versions | by way of `System.Net.WebRequest` instrumentation |

<!-- markdownlint-enable MD013 -->

## Get started

### Windows

**Warning**: Pay close attention to the scope of environment variables. Ensure they
are properly set prior to launching the targeted process. The following steps set the
environment variables at the machine level, with the exception of the variables used
for finer control of which processes will be instrumented, which are set in the current

> command session.

Reviewer: Not sure if this warning is required:

- What is the risk for users not setting the scope properly?
- How likely it is that users may set the scope incorrectly?
- What's the preferred way to set the env vars here? I see you use `setx`, but that's permanent. Do we want to set the env vars permanently? Why not using `$env:` like we do for Java and Python?

Author: I totally agree
This is why I already marked in "Next Steps" in PR description: 

> simplify the Get started for Windows. some stuff should go to advanced configuration

> 1. Install the CLR Profiler using an installer file (`.msi` file) from the latest release.
> Choose the installer (x64 or x86) according to the architecture of the operating
> system where it will be running.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Download and run the .MSI installer of the CLR Profiler for your architecture.
```

@pellared Can we add more or less permanent links to each arch installer? We want to users to quickly grab the file from the docs. Alternatively, can we provide a PowerShell `Invoke-WebRequest` snippet that does everything (download, silent install, etc.)? 

Also, what's the CLR Profiler in this context? Is it equivalent to the Java agent for autoinstrumentation?

Author: Let's address it in a separate PR

1. Configure the required environment variables to enable the CLR Profiler:
    - For .NET Framework applications:

    ```batch

>     setx COR_PROFILER "{B4C89B0F-9908-4F73-9F59-0D77C5A06874}" /m

Reviewer: What does that value do?

Author: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/framework/unmanaged-api/profiling/setting-up-a-profiling-environment 😉 .NET Profiling configuration is awkward 😋

    ```

   - For .NET Core applications:

   ```batch

>    setx CORECLR_PROFILER "{B4C89B0F-9908-4F73-9F59-0D77C5A06874}" /m

Reviewer: Let's consider automating all these steps in a PowerShell script/snippet?

Author: instead of the batch script (Windows command prompt)? or in addition to it?

_added to TODO list_

   ```

1. Set the service name:

   ```batch

>    setx SIGNALFX_SERVICE my-service-name /m

Reviewer: We need also snippets for bash (Linux) in the official docs.

Author: There are there, am I correct?

   ```

1. Set the trace endpoint, e.g. [Splunk OpenTelemetry Collector](https://github.com/signalfx/splunk-otel-collector):

   ```batch

>    setx SIGNALFX_ENDPOINT_URL http://localhost:9411/api/v2/spans /m

Reviewer: What's the default value? Couldn't we set a default for this to avoid an additional step?

Author: We can but we need to implement it 😄 
Jira story created

   ```

> 1. Optionally, enable trace injection in logs:

Reviewer: I'd add a link here to the logs injection instructions.

   ```batch
   setx SIGNALFX_LOGS_INJECTION true /m
   ```

> 1. Enable instrumentation for the targeted application by setting

Reviewer: Is this for AlwaysOn Profiling?

Author: AlwaysOn Profiling is not implemented yet

the appropriate __CLR enable profiling__ environment variable.
You can enable instrumentation at these levels:

   - For current command session
   - For a specific Windows Service

>    - For a specific user

Reviewer: I understand that instrumenting for the current command session is preferred in most cases. Under which cases would you instrument for a specific service or user? What's the consequence of instrumenting at user level?

Author: I agree with you. I want to update this whole section in a dedicated PR.

   The follow snippet describes how to enable instrumentation for
   the current command session according to the .NET runtime.
   To enable instrumentation at different levels, see
   [this](#enable-instrumentation-at-different-levels) section.

    - For .NET Framework applications:

      ```batch
      set COR_ENABLE_PROFILING=1
      ```

    - For .NET Core applications:

      ```batch
      set CORECLR_ENABLE_PROFILING=1
      ```

1. Restart your application ensuring that all environment variables above are properly
configured. If you need to check the environment variables for a process use a tool

> like [Process Explorer](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/sysinternals/downloads/process-explorer).

Reviewer: Isn't `dir env:` quicker?

Author: Process Explorer is better as it shows exact env vars used by the process. So it can be checked e.g. after a terminal that started the app is closed.

> #### Enable instrumentation at different levels

Reviewer: Let's consider moving this page to docs/instrumentation-levels.md

Author: I am thinking about a section in `advanced-configuration.md`. WDYT?

> Enable instrumentation for a specific Windows service:

Reviewer: For each level, let's provide an example and/or explain why one would select that option over the others.

Author: I will address it in a separate PR

> - For .NET Framework applications:

Reviewer: All these instructions are only for Windows?

Author: Yes

   ```batch
   reg add HKLM\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Services\<ServiceName>\Environment /v COR_ENABLE_PROFILING /d 1
   ```

- For .NET Core applications:

   ```batch
   reg add HKLM\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Services\<ServiceName>\Environment /v CORECLR_ENABLE_PROFILING /d 1
   ```

Enable instrumentation for a specific user:

- For .NET Framework applications:

   ```batch
   setx /s %COMPUTERNAME% /u <[domain/]user> COR_ENABLE_PROFILING 1
   ```

- For .NET Core applications:

   ```batch
   setx /s %COMPUTERNAME% /u <[domain/]user> CORECLR_ENABLE_PROFILING 1

>    ```

Reviewer: No Linux equivalent?

Author: There are there in a section below. Am I correct?

### Linux

After downloading the library, install the CLR Profiler and its components
via your system's package manager.

> 1. Download the latest release of the library.

Reviewer: How? Can we provide a `curl` snippet here?

Reviewer: Where is the library installed or where should it be installed? How does it interact with the CLR Profiler?

Author: In fact, it is a CLR Profiler. I will double-check the installation later.

1. Install the CLR Profiler and its components with your system's package
manager:

    ```bash
    # Use dpkg:
    dpkg -i signalfx-dotnet-tracing.deb

    # Use rpm:
    rpm -ivh signalfx-dotnet-tracing.rpm

    # Install directly from the release bundle:
    tar -xf signalfx-dotnet-tracing.tar.gz -C /

    # Install directly from the release bundle for musl-using systems (Alpine Linux):
    tar -xf signalfx-dotnet-tracing-musl.tar.gz -C /
    ```

1. Configure the required environment variables:

    ```bash
    source /opt/signalfx/defaults.env
    ```

1. Set the service name:

    ```bash
    export SIGNALFX_SERVICE='my-service-name'
    ```

1. Set the trace endpoint, e.g. [Splunk OpenTelemetry Collector](https://github.com/signalfx/splunk-otel-collector):

    ```bash
    export SIGNALFX_ENDPOINT_URL='http://<YourCollector>:9411/api/v2/spans'
    ```

1. Optionally, enable trace injection in logs:

    ```bash
    export SIGNALFX_LOGS_INJECTION=true
    ```

1. Optionally, create the default logging directory:

    ```bash
    /opt/signalfx/createLogPath.sh

>     ```

Reviewer: Can we join both steps if related? I guess you can't enable logs injection if you don't have a logging dir.

Also, don't you need to create a dir in Windows, too? Or it just uses the built-in Event log?

Author: trace injection is for application logs
the logging directory is only for auto instrumentation logs 
these are different log destinations

the MSI creates the log directory on Windows
I will check if it is needed on Linux but as I remember it really was

Author: Postponed for a seperate PR

1. Run your application, e.g.:

    ```bash
    dotnet run

>     ```

Reviewer: What should the user see in the stdout if the instrumentation has been successful?

Author: I think he will only see that everything is OK by inspecting the logs...

Author: I will address it in a separate PR

> ## Manually instrument an application

Reviewer: I'd move this to docs/manual-instrumentation.md

You can build upon the provided tracing functionality by modifying and adding
to automatically generated traces. The OpenTelemetry Tracing library for .NET
provides and registers an [OpenTracing-compatible](https://github.com/opentracing/opentracing-csharp)
global tracer you can use.

OpenTracing versions 0.11.0+ are supported and the provided tracer offers a
complete implementation of the OpenTracing API.

The auto-instrumentation provides a base you can build on by adding your own
custom instrumentation. By using both instrumentation approaches, you'll be
able to present a more detailed representation of the logic and functionality
of your application, clients, and framework.

1. Add the OpenTracing dependency to your project:

    ```xml
    <PackageReference Include="OpenTracing" Version="0.12.1" />

>     ```

Reviewer: Not entirely familiar with .NET dependency system. Does this require the download of a NuGet package? If a previous download or import step is required, we should describe it here.

1. Obtain the `OpenTracing.Util.GlobalTracer` instance and create spans that
automatically become child spans of any existing spans in the same context:

    ```csharp
    using OpenTracing;
    using OpenTracing.Util;

    namespace MyProject
    {
        public class MyClass
        {
            public static async void MyMethod()
            {
                // Obtain the automatically registered OpenTracing.Util.GlobalTracer instance
                var tracer = GlobalTracer.Instance;

                // Create an active span that will be automatically parented by any existing span in this context
                using (IScope scope = tracer.BuildSpan("MyTracedFunctionality").StartActive(finishSpanOnDispose: true))
                {
                    var span = scope.Span;
                    span.SetTag("MyImportantTag", "MyImportantValue");
                    span.Log("My Important Log Statement");

                    var ret = await MyAppFunctionality();

                    span.SetTag("FunctionalityReturned", ret.ToString());
                }
            }
        }
    }
    ```

> 

Reviewer: The rest of ENV vars would be configured the same as with the autoinstrumentation?

Author: Yes. This manual instrumentation will use all the settings applied by env vars (and other sources).

Further reading:

- [OpenTracing documentation](https://github.com/opentracing/opentracing-csharp)
- [OpenTracing terminology](https://github.com/opentracing/specification/blob/master/specification.md)

## Advanced configuration

See [advanced-config.md](advanced-config.md).

## Correlating traces with logs

The SignalFx-Tracing Library for .NET implements the
[Profiling API](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/framework/unmanaged-api/profiling/)
and should only require basic configuration of your application environment.

You can link individual log entries with trace IDs and span IDs associated with
corresponding events. If your application uses a supported logger, enable trace
injection to automatically include trace context in your application's logs.
For more information, see [Inject traces in logs](../tracer/samples/AutomaticTraceIdInjection/README.md).

> ## Troubleshooting

Reviewer: Let's move this to docs/troubleshooting.md
